## VENTURE DEALS
 ---

 ### Week 5:
 
 #### Conditions precedent to financing:
 
 It refers to the conditions that may cause the vc not to close the deal. A vc may get away anytime until a minute they sign the deal with almost no penalty.
 
 The example of these conditions, can be some standard due diligent items. They can be as vague as, your operating plans that doesn't make sense to the investor. Or it can be a reason,  non-related to the entrepreneur, such as the investor has to go to their internal investment committee and trying to get the approval.
 
 #### Information rights:
 
 Investors love to have as much information about your business as much as possible.
 
 Most of the investors will have access to almost all information the business has, and the terms will be specified in the term sheets.
 
 However, sometimes the access to data would be limited for those who invested so little for example on seed round. 
 
 #### Registration rights:
 
 It explains in the term sheet about how the company can register shares in the future when the company went public.
 
 #### proprietary agreement:
 
 It is so important to protect the intellectual property of the company. We have to make sure everyone working for the company, gets the proprietary agreement. it says whatever we do together, belongs to the company.
 
 __IMPORTANT:__ If you had a co-founder in the past and things didn't go as well as expected, and you haven't have any intellectual property protection with them, the company will be so much in danger that you may don't get the chance to have any vc investment.
 
 For mentors and advisers, it's not necessary to sign this contract with them, but anyone else who is involved in the real work, has to sign.
 
 When an entrepreneur makes a deal with a vc firm, they will be required to work on this company and nothing else, unless it is clearly discussed with investors in advance.
 
 #### IPO (Initial Public Offering) share purchase:
 The rule is, the vc is allowed to re-invest in the company they have already invested on, by buying the public shares at the same price offered publicly.
 
 
 #### No-shop agreement:
 
 It simply says, once you sign the contract with the vc, you are not allowed to go out and look for other investors. 
 
 
 #### Indemnification agreement:
 
 It says that in any lawsuit or complaint against me as the founder, or a team member, the company will step up and be responsible.
 
 #### Dilutive Financing:
 
 Where the valuation of the company has decreased significantly since earlier rounds of financing, the new investors may insist on a variety of terms that have the effect of significantly diluting the holdings and rights of existing investors. As part of this type of highly-dilutive or “wash-out” financing, the new investors may require a significant change to the capital structure of the company prior to, or in conjunction with, the new investment. Sometimes, this will be effected through a “pay-to-play” provision (discussed later in this questionnaire) that penalizes investors that fail to participate in the new round. In more rare instances, investors may require a more fundamental change to the capital structure, such as requiring preferred shares to convert to common. In that type of situation, it will be helpful to outline the expectations regarding these types of changes in the term sheet.

Because dilutive financings can involve complicated multi-party negotiations and a number of complex legal issues, it is important that you obtain competent legal assistance.


[here](https://www.wsgr.com/wsgr/display.aspx?sectionname=practice/termsheet.htm) is a good link for a term sheet generator.

A sample term sheet generated by this website, and added to the folder. (Venture Financing Term Sheet.docx)



